# Tableau Challenge
## CitiBike January 2021 Analysis 

Tableau Visualization Link: https://public.tableau.com/profile/stella2446#!/vizhome/ny_16133661618870/NYCitiBikeJanuary2021_1

**Phenomena #1 Analysis- Top 10 start stations
* First dashboard is to identify any trends or patterns at popular start stations to align possible marketing strategies or create more efficient allocation of resources. The most popular start stations are calculated based on frequency in the January 2021 dataset. The start locations are mapped alongside the end stations which portrays overlapping areas. This supports that high volumes of Citi Bikes placed at start locations would continue to be in rotation since users will end their journey in similar locations, thus a decrease in need to shift bicycle to other various areas. With the popular locations, it is expected that the average use of bicycles would correlate with increasing popularity of stations. However, the average use time has no correlation to the popularity of stations. Further analysis in user type breakdown at popular stations shows significant more subscribers (customers with annual membership) compared to short term customers which infers that users are largely city residents who may be renting from Citi Bikes for daily errands or work-related activities.**

* Phenomena #2 Analysis- Age groups
*A different area of analysis is observing trends or patterns between age groups to refocus strategies based on customer demographics. From the data, most users are between the ages of 20s to 50s and mainly subscribers. However, there is an increase in short term customer membership in the 50s age group which can deduce that users in their 50s is most likely visitors who feel comfortable utilizing bicycles as travel means. Marketing can be shifted to visitors ages 20s to 40s to increase user desirability. Also, the 10-20s age group has the least amount in customer demographics but has the highest use with Citi Bikes. Thus, company should consider recommending safety measures such as helmets for the younger age groups. Of note, data in relation to ages 100+ are removed as outliers or errors due to being less likely a user demographic and having associated poor/undefined cells such as gender. 

* Phenomena #3 Analysis- Popular Citi Bikes and Maintenance
*The dashboard represents the most commonly used 5 bicycles by their Bike ID frequencies and maps their locations of use. (The number of bicycles can be expanded based on data user.) Bicycles used more often may require increase in maintenance and repairs. Thus, the locations of bicycles previously may aid allocating Citi Bike employees in servicing within those areas. Moreover, the usage trend shows that bicycles are most often used between the hours 8-9am and 3-5pm. It would be beneficial for maintenance and repairs to be done around those peak hours to provide maximum usability/availability to users. 

* Start and End Station Location Maps
*The most popular locations to start and end an user’s journey has similar locations such as lower Manhattan/Central Park regions which is reassuring that increase number of Citi Bikes placed in those popular locations will continue to stay in rotation. Citi Bike employees can be assigned to zip codes to provide adequate coverage. 
